.TH COMMITQUEST 1 "July 2026" "CommitQuest 1.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
commitquest, cq \- turn local Git progress into a private developer adventure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cq
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
CommitQuest is a local-first terminal game that converts Git commits and releases into XP, quests, achievements, campaign chapters, and cosmetic developer paths. Repository contents and progress remain on the local machine.
.SH PRIMARY COMMANDS
.TP
.B cq
Open the interactive terminal application.
.TP
.B cq add PATH
Track a local Git repository as a campaign.
.TP
.B cq scan
Import new commits and releases from active campaigns.
.TP
.B cq doctor [--repair]
Check or safely repair the local installation, database, hooks, and campaign paths.
.TP
.B cq backup create|list|restore
Create and restore verified local backups.
.TP
.B cq privacy [--json]
Audit stored local data and privacy-safe sharing defaults.
.TP
.B cq settings
View or change theme, motion, and colour preferences.
.TP
.B cq completion SHELL
Print shell completion for bash, zsh, or fish.
.TP
.B cq cleanup [--apply]
Preview or remove old backups and crash reports.
.TP
.B cq uninstall --yes [--purge-data]
Remove a local npm installation. Progress and settings are preserved unless --purge-data is supplied.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/commitquest/commitquest.db
Local SQLite progress database.
.TP
.I ~/.config/commitquest/settings.json
Persistent theme and accessibility settings.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/commitquest/backups/
Verified backup snapshots.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B COMMITQUEST_HOME
Override all CommitQuest data and configuration paths.
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
Disable colour when the colour preference is set to auto.
.SH PRIVACY
CommitQuest does not include a network upload service. Default share exports hide repository names, paths, Git email addresses, commit hashes, and commit subjects.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR node (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Made with <3 by Aetherelic.
